# Bocconi Marketing Analytics – Health Sector
## Impact R&D ratio on Firm Value Healthcare Sector
### Sample construction and variable construction
Our original data set consists of 22723 observations representing 3524 firms distinguished by “user id”. The observations are described by 16 variables. For example, we have the variables “year”, “assets”, “debt”, “firm value” and “rd”. The original data set consists of 8 business sectors. 
For our project we are going to focus on all the firms in one business sector: healthcare (sector 5). We have chosen the healthcare sector, because health is crucial for everyone in their daily lives. The COVID pandemic has made this even more clear. Due to the little capacity in hospitals, not everyone was able to receive the care they needed. So it is really important for healthcare firms to always keep improving by investing enough in research and development. However, it is the question what the exact effect is of R&D expenses on the values of firms in the healthcare sector and moreover if R&D expenses even have a significant effect on the value of firms in this sector. So for this project we are going to investigate the impact of R&D expenses (independent variable) on firm value (dependent variable). R&D expenses are measured in million dollars and firm value is measured by Tobin’s Q. 
Our updated dataset consists of 3292 observations representing 553 firms operating in the healthcare sector. For example, this can be firms specialized in medical equipment, drugs or healthcare. We will use sales to calculate the R&D ratio, so we will remove 13 observations that have sales equal to zero. Besides the given dataset, we have also constructed the following additional variables to obtain richer insights for our model:
**Market share** → mkt_share for firm i in year j = sales firm i in year j / total sales health sector in year j. This shows the portion of the market that is earned by a particular company. 
**Market growth** → mkt_growth in year t = log(total sales healthcare sector in year t) - log(total sales healthcare sector in year t-1). This shows the general growth in sales in the healthcare sector over time.
**Strategic emphasis (SE)** → SE = (advertising expenditure - R&D expenditure) / total assets. This shows the extent to which a firm allocates its resources advertising compared to R&D. The higher SE, the more resources are allocated to advertising compared to R&D.
### Descriptive statistics
#### Descriptive statistics
*See table 1 (appendix)*
#### Correlation table
*See table 2 (appendix)*
#### Trend mean
If you look at figure 1 (appendix), you can see a lot of fluctuation in the mean of the firm value, especially in the beginning. You can see there was a significant drop in 2002, probably justified by the Internet Bubble in 2001 and in 2008 there was a big drop justified by the Great Recession (2007-2013). After 2012 the mean of firm value displays a general increase over time.
Looking at figure 2 (appendix), the mean R&D ratio is quite constant over time, with little fluctuations. The only thing that stands out is the high peak in 2016. As we are using the R&D ratio, this peak can be caused by an increase in R&D expenses holding sales constant or by a decrease in sales holding R&D constant. 
To explain the peak in 2016, we decided to also look at the trend of the mean R&D expenses over time. Figure 3 (appendix) shows an overall increase in R&D expenses over time. From 2016 you can see a steeper increase in R&D expenses so this increase combined with lower sales, probably explains the peak in the R&D ratio in 2016. R&D and sales have shown approximately the same growth over the years, so that kept the R&D ratio quite constant.
### Model development 
For the project we will be using a multiple regression model, including the following focal variables:
1. We use **firm value** as dependent variable. Firm value is measured by Tobin’s Q. This approximates the market value of a company divided by its asset’s replacement cost. We use firm value because we think this is a good measure to examine the performance of r&d expenditure. We think firm value will raise if R&D expenditure increase as D&D leads to improvements to existing processes due to higher efficiency and new knowledge and insights.
2. We use the **R&D ratio** as focal independent variable. This ratio shows the relationship between R&D expenditure and sales and informs us what part of sales is spent on R&D. Companies can be better compared if we use the ratio instead of absolute values as this corrects for firm size. We believe R&D is most important for the healthcare sector for survival and improvement. We expect the coefficient to be positive, as R&D leads to improvements to existing processes and leads to new knowledge and insights, increasing firm value. 
#### Control variables that we use:
3. We use log(assets) as proxy for firm size and we use the logarithm as assets are skewed. We think that the higher the log(assets), the higher the firm value. If a firm has more assets it’s bigger and has more possibilities and growth potential. Besides if a firm is bigger it can benefit from economies of scale and scope and specialization which will lead to higher firm value. So we expect the coefficient to be positive.
4. Market growth shows the average increase in sales in the healthcare sector for a given year. This might impact the firm value as it is an indicator of the general circumstances in the sector. If market growth is high it indicates that the healthcare sector is doing well and thus that firm values will be higher. So we expect the coefficient to be positive.
5. Strategic emphasis indicates the extent to which a firm allocates its resources in brand building (advertising) compared to innovation (R&D). We think advertising is less important than R&D expenditures in the healthcare sector, so it’s important to spend a bigger share of resources on R&D. Therefore we think there is a negative relationship between strategic emphasis and firm value. More advertising expenditure compared to R&D expenditure leads to lower firm value as less money is available for R&D. 
6. A company’s market share is its sales measured as a percentage of total sales in the healthcare sector for a given year. We expect the coefficient to be positive as a company with bigger market share has more market power, resources and customers and thus more investment and development possibilities which increase firm value. Besides they can benefit from specialization and economies of scale and scope as they are often quite big.
7. Year includes the year-fixed effect and is measured as a dummy variable. Our data has multiple years, so it is important to control for the time effect.

### Model estimation and interpretation
To account for the panel structure and to address the heterogeneity we use a panel regression with random effect (RE) or a panel regression with the firm fixed effect (FE). We implemented the Hausman Test to make a choice. The assumption of the RE is that the firm specific effect is not correlated with the X variables. If the assumption does not hold and thus the Hausman Test gives a significant result, we use the FE model. If the assumption holds, the test will not be significant so then we use the RE model. The outcome of the test was P<0.000. So the 0 Hypothesis is rejected and we will use the FE model. 
The outcome of our regression is:
`Firm value = 4.735 +0.361*R&D Ratio -0.463*log(assets) +0.255*Market Growth +  
-3.334*strategic emphasis + 6.104*Market Share + i for i=1993,...,2019*Yeari for i=1993,...,2019` All coefficients are significant on the 5% level, except for the coefficient of market growth. 
The coefficient of our focal variable (R&D ratio) is 0.361 with a P-value of 0.003. As the P-value is smaller than 0.05, the R&D ratio has a significant positive impact on firm value. This outcome is in line with the expectation we discussed under “model development”. We expected the coefficient to be positive as R&D is a crucial component in the successful realization and development of new medical devices and drugs entering the healthcare market. It leads to new knowledge and insights and can alter the way professionals work to a more efficient one. Concluding, these improvements will eventually have a positive impact on the value of a company.
The coefficient of log(assets) is -0.463 with a P-value of 0.000 and thus significant. We did not expect the coefficient to be negative. An explanation might be that the bigger older firms (more assets) are not continually looking for improvements as they already have a big market share, so they do not grow fast anymore. While younger firms have yet to compete for their share and have more growth potential. This might eventually lead to a higher firm value.
The coefficient of market growth is not significant (P=0.453). The coefficient of strategic emphasis is -3.334 and significant (P=0.000). This is in line with our expectations. The higher the strategic emphasis, the less money is available for R&D which is most important for companies in healthcare and thus for firm value. Besides, it might be possible that advertising in general has a negative impact on firm value in the healthcare sector. Finally, the coefficient of market share is 6.104 and significant (P=0.040). This is in line with our expectations. Companies with higher market share have more resources and customers and thus more possibilities for innovation and development. Besides, they can benefit from economies of scale and scope and specialization as they are often quite big. These factors increase firm value. It is notable that market share has a quite big impact on firm value compared to the other independent variables. 
### Interaction effect
We have seen that log(assets) has a significant negative impact on firm value and said that this might be explained by the fact that younger and thus smaller firms have more growth potential. So we would like to know if R&D also has a bigger impact on firm value for smaller younger firms compared to older bigger firms and thus if there is an interaction effect between R&D ratio and log(assets). We predict this interaction effect to be negative, because we think that a higher R&D ratio has a bigger impact on firm value for smaller younger firms (low log_assets) than for older bigger firms. Small young firms have more opportunities and need of improving than old big firms. As they increase their R&D expenses compared to sales, they must allocate their resources more wisely and they can establish more as they are still young and upcoming, which leads to more growth potential and eventually higher firm value.
Our interaction effect has a coefficient of -0.217 and a P-value of 0.002. So the interaction effect is negative and significant like we predicted. So this means that the effect of R&D ratio on firm value decreases as log(assets) (firm size) increases. A higher R&D ratio increases firm value more for smaller firms than for bigger firms. We think this is caused by the growth opportunities for smaller firms that we explained in the prediction.
### Margins plot
The margin plot in figure 4 (appendix) shows the negative interaction effect of log(assets) and R&D ratio on firm value. The marginal effect of R&D ratio on firm value decreases as log(assets) increases. 
### Appendix
Tables and images to be added soon